As [expected](https://www.aboutamazon.com/news/retail/amazon-prime-day-july-2024), Amazon’s annual sales event for Prime subscribers will once again take place in mid-July. The two-day sales event will start at 12:01AM PT / 3:01AM ET on Tuesday, July 16th, and run through Wednesday, July 17th, the [company announced on Tuesday](https://press.aboutamazon.com/2024/6/amazons-10th-prime-day-event-returns-july-16-17-with-millions-of-exclusive-deals-for-prime-members).

Like in previous years, Prime Day 2024 will function as a two-day sale, one that’s exclusive to Amazon Prime members. The company typically treats the multiday deal blowout like its own Black Friday — a fair comparison, considering the event often drops many sought-after goods to some of their best prices of the year. Historically, some of the best deals have been exclusive to one of the two days, though many materialize as lightning deals with limited availability. Like last year, some discounts will also come in the form of invite-only deals, which you can sign up for in advance directly on the product page.

You can expect great deals from all sorts of brands, including Sony and Peloton, but a significant chunk of the best Prime Day deals will likely fall on Amazon’s own products. This includes [Amazon Echo speakers](/23426830/echo-dot-with-clock-2022-fifth-gen-review) and [smart displays](/24078558/echo-hub-review-alexa-amazon-smart-control-panel), [Amazon Fire TV sets](/22785648/amazon-fire-tv-omni-review-alexa) and [streaming devices](/23429259/amazon-fire-tv-cube-2022-review), [Ring cameras](/24163485/ring-pan-tilt-indoor-cam-smart-security-camera-hands-on), [Kindles](/21539047/best-amazon-kindle-deals), [Eero routers](/2023/9/20/23882163/amazon-eero-max-7-wi-fi-router-mesh-price-release-date), and more. In fact, Amazon is already offering the “lowest price ever” on many of these items in the lead-up to the shopping event, including the [latest Fire TV Cube](https://www.amazon.com/All-new-fire-tv-cube-4k-streaming-device/dp/B09BZZ3MM7/?tag=theverge02-20), [third-gen Echo Show 8](https://www.amazon.com/All-New-Echo-Show-8/dp/B0BLS3Y632?tag=theverge02-20), and [note-taking Kindle Scribe](https://www.amazon.com/Kindle-Scribe-the-first-Kindle-for-reading-writing-journaling-and-sketching/dp/B09BS26B8B?tag=theverge02-20).

It’s not uncommon to see great deals on digital goods and services, too. Amazon will offer new subscribers five free months of Amazon Music Unlimited, up to 50 percent off select movies and shows to rent or own, and discounts on Prime Video Channels such as Starz and Crunchyroll. Prime members will even be able to get $15 off orders of $75 or more at physical Amazon Fresh stores between June 26th and July 15th or sign up for three free months of [Amazon’s new unlimited grocery delivery subscription](/2024/4/23/24138099/amazon-prime-grocery-subscription-ebt). The latter promo will be available to EBT customers, too, or at least those who have not previously signed up for the service.

In the past, we’ve seen competing retailers attempt to steal Amazon’s thunder with rival sales, which Walmart aims to do with its [recently announced Walmart Deals event](https://corporate.walmart.com/news/2024/06/24/walmart-brings-the-heat-with-its-largest-deals-event-ever) on July 8th. But Amazon will also work with select partners to officiate equivalent sales, namely those from smaller brands such as PopSockets. You’ll be able to buy directly from a host of specialized brands throughout the two-day event using Amazon’s [“Buy with Prime” option](/2023/1/10/23548108/amazon-buy-with-prime-button-expansion), which lets you take advantage of free delivery, 24/7 chat support, and other Prime benefits.

As is typical, Prime Day will take place in the US, UK, Spain, Australia, Germany, Mexico, Japan, and nearly 20 other regions around the globe. (India will receive a separate event later this summer.) We’ll be covering every leg of the sale by surfacing the best deals on noise-canceling headphones, laptops, 4K TVs, and other tech, so be sure to check back with us between now and July 16th for all of our Prime Day coverage.
