Apple may no longer be working on a new high-end Vision headset amid slowing sales of the Vision Pro, according to [a new report from *The Information*](https://www.theinformation.com/articles/apple-suspends-work-on-next-high-end-headset-focused-on-releasing-cheaper-model-in-late-2025?rc=v4bmzs). Instead, Apple has apparently been finding ways to reduce the cost of components for the first model and is working on a cheaper Vision headset that it aims to ship by the end of 2025.

The first Vision Pro came out earlier this year, and while it’s [a very good VR headset](/24054862/apple-vision-pro-review-vr-ar-headset-features-price), it has a lot of flaws inherent to many other VR headsets. It’s also quite expensive, starting at $3,499, and — what I noticed most when I tried the Vision Pro at an Apple Store — pretty heavy.

With a cheaper Vision headset, which is reportedly codenamed N109, Apple aims to keep the high-res displays that make the Vision Pro stand out but remove some features and make it “at least one-third lighter,” according to *The Information*. The company apparently wants to price the cheaper Vision headset at a price that’s in line with a high-end iPhone; *Bloomberg* reported [in October](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/newsletters/2023-10-15/apple-october-2023-executive-promotions-new-vps-of-retail-software-operations-lnrh4t94?srnd=undefined&sref=ExbtjcSG) that Apple was aiming for a price point between $1,500 and $2,500. And *The Information* reports that Apple has had trouble cutting costs without compromising too much on features, so this cheaper headset may not make that 2025 goal.

Apple didn’t immediately reply to a request for comment.

The company is still putting muscle behind the Vision Pro: it plans to [begin releasing the headset internationally](/2024/6/10/24173749/apple-wwdc-vision-pro-international-sales-availability-launch-price) at the end of June and add a bunch of [new](/2024/6/10/24171950/apple-vision-pro-wwdc-2024-visionos-2-first-party-native-apps) [features](/2024/6/11/24175689/apple-vision-pro-2-wwdc-2024-keynote-best-updates) with visionOS 2 this fall. But we’ll have to wait and see if the company ends up releasing another high-end Vision device down the line or if it will focus long-term on a more affordable product.
