Elon Musk had a sexual relationship with a former SpaceX intern, who he later hired onto his executive team, according to [*The Wall Street Journal*](https://www.wsj.com/business/elon-musk-spacex-employee-relationships-8bca2806). He also had a sexual relationship with a second employee. And a third woman alleged that Musk asked her several times to have his children; she refused. He then denied her a raise and complained about her performance.

One of the women who Musk had a sexual relationship also drew the ire of SpaceX President Gwynne Shotwell, who accused her of having an affair with Shotwell’s husband. When the woman reported this to HR, HR told Shotwell. “Shotwell told the HR department at SpaceX that she wanted the woman removed from the office of the chief executive,” *The Wall Street Journal* wrote.

The *Journal*’s article cites text messages, emails, and other documents. It is based on interviews with more than 48 people, including friends and family members of the women, as well as former employees.

Musk didn’t reply to *WSJ’*s requests for comment. Shotwell said the *WSJ’s* request for comment “paint\[s\] a completely misleading narrative” of what working for SpaceX is like, and that the *WSJ* story doesn’t reflect SpaceX’s culture. She also said that SpaceX investigates all harassment complaints and responds appropriately.

In 2021, [five former SpaceX employees said there was a “culture of sexual harassment”](/22831380/spacex-employees-harassment-workplace-misconduct-elon-musk) in the company. One of those women described multiple instances of being groped. A 2022 story [reported that a flight attendant on Musk’s private jet](https://www.businessinsider.com/spacex-paid-250000-to-a-flight-attendant-who-accused-elon-musk-of-sexual-misconduct-2022-5) said he exposed himself and offered “to buy her a horse in exchange for an erotic massage,” according to *Business Insider.* Earlier this year, a former SpaceX employee [filed a lawsuit alleging sexual abuse and discrimination](/2024/3/6/24092721/spacex-lawsuit-sexual-bias-harassment-pay-inequity).
