The chair of the Federal Communications Commission proposed a new rule that could make it easier for consumers to unlock their cellphones. The proposed regulation, which the agency [announced on Thursday](https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DOC-403520A1.pdf), would require mobile providers to unlock consumers’ phones within 60 days of activation.

Under current regulations, consumers who want to unlock their phone — as in, freeing up a phone so it can move from one network to another — are at the mercy of their service provider. Per the [FCC](https://www.fcc.gov/general/cell-phone-unlocking), consumers who want to unlock their device should contact their service provider to find out when and how their phone can be unlocked. To then unlock a device, a consumer must be in “good standing” with their provider, meaning their phone must be paid off or they’ll have to pay an early termination fee. (This works a bit differently for people with prepaid phone plans, which “participating providers” will usually unlock within a year of activation, depending on their individual requirements.)

In a press release, the FCC said updated rules around unlocking phones would give consumers more flexibility. “Real competition benefits from transparency and consistency,” FCC Chair Jessica Rosenworcel said in a [statement](https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DOC-403520A1.pdf). “That is why we are proposing clear, nationwide mobile phone unlocking rules. When you buy a phone, you should have the freedom to decide when to change service to the carrier you want and not have the device you own stuck by practices that prevent you from making that choice.”

There are few details about the proposed rule at the moment. The FCC’s press release notes that it will have an open meeting on July 18th, during which it will vote on the notice of proposed rulemaking regarding the expansion of the unlocking requirements. After the 18th, the FCC will seek comment on the proposed rule, whether the new requirement should be applied to current or future contracts, and whether it could benefit smaller service providers and phone resellers.
