While Samsung is gearing up to officially introduce the latest Galaxy Z foldable smartphones at its [Unpacked event on July 10th](/2024/6/25/24178801/samsung-unpacked-summer-2024-galaxy-z-fold-6-ring), a new batch of leaked images have spoiled more of the surprise. The renders of the upcoming Galaxy Z Flip 6 and Z Fold 6 handsets come courtesy of established leaker [Evan Blass](https://twitter.com/evleaks/status/1806476849750626727?s=61&t=EGp6YBFJUhIE3uQWtouEeQ) and [*WinFuture*](https://winfuture.de/news,143639.html), which show what colors may be available alongside sharing many similarities with previous leaks from [*SmartPrix,*](/2024/2/28/24085509/samsung-galaxy-z-fold-6-foldable-leaked-renders-rumored-july-unpacked) [*OnLeaks*](/2024/2/29/24086434/samsung-galaxy-z-flip-6-leaked-renders-onleaks-thickness-specs-cameras)*,* and [Ice Universe](/2024/5/30/24167731/another-look-at-the-boxy-galaxy-z-fold-6).

The images show a more squared-off design for the Galaxy Z Fold 6, which was also seen in [images of a prototype](/2024/6/14/24178509/samsung-galaxy-z-fold-6-prototype-boxier-design) earlier this month. The hinge and bezels surrounding the outer display appear smaller, and black rings can be seen around the rear triple-camera lenses. [Leaked specifications](/2024/6/14/24178341/samsungs-galaxy-z-fold-6-seems-like-a-minor-upgrade) shared by *Smartprix* suggest that might be the only noticeable update to the Z Fold 6’s camera system, however, as it seems to be rocking the exact [same setup as its predecessor](/23826325/samsung-galaxy-z-fold-5-review-screen-hinge-battery-camera).

The renders supplied by Blass show two color variants for the Galaxy Z Fold 6: Gray and Navy Blue. The hues are slightly different to the Z Fold 5’s Gray and more vivid blue [online exclusives](https://www.phonearena.com/news/galaxy-z-fold-5-colors_id147155), and the separate batch of leaked images shared by *WinFuture* (which match those provided by Blass) suggests the Fold 6 will also be available in light Pink.

The latest images of the clamshell-like Galaxy Z Flip 6, meanwhile, are nearly identical to the former [Z Flip 5 model](/23820202/samsung-galaxy-z-flip-5-review-screen-battery-camera-hinge). The color options we’ve seen — Blue, Silver, [Yellow, and Green](https://winfuture.de/news,143639.html) — seem to have a more mattified “brushed metal” look, and it appears the rings around the two rear-facing cameras are color-coordinated to match the device. It’s a cute change, and the larger cover screen has thankfully been retained, but the lack of major design adjustments may disappoint Samsung users who are expecting a little more from a generational update.

Both the Galaxy Z Fold 6 and Flip 6 are expected to run new Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 processors. Rumors also suggest the Z Flip 6’s main camera will be bumped to a 50-megapixel resolution from the current 12-megapixel variant, and come with an upgraded 4,000mAh battery instead of the 3,700mAh battery found on the Z Flip 5.
