I met Vitus “V” Spehar — the face behind [Under the Desk News](https://www.tiktok.com/@underthedesknews?lang=en) — a year ago in Washington, DC. I was on location with *The Verge* filming the TikTok senate hearing along with interviews with senators and content creators for a [*Verge* video about the looming ban](https://youtu.be/yjcdXup0xfQ?si=uHigyN9BJEjn0YkF). And when we interviewed V outside of the Capitol, V said that TikTok was useful for channels like their own — a news channel that was started because they didn’t believe traditional news sources were accessible enough to younger audiences. V’s TikTok channel now has 3.1 million subscribers.

Every weekday, V sifts through news websites in search of six to eight stories they deem important enough to share with their audience. V then condenses each story into a bite-size snippet, crawls under a desk, and creates a 90-second video that highlights the happenings of the day. It’s this ritual, which started on January 6th, 2021, that has propelled V into TikTok political fame.

But that fame comes with some unique challenges. Under The Desk occupies a tricky space that positions V somewhere between news anchor and internet personality. So while V reports information to millions of people, they view their followers as a community — one that they care about and sometimes give advice to. And when you couple that with the huge divide in US politics, it is a recipe for a whole lot of backlash that V increasingly has to deal with.

In the latest episode of my new creator-focused video series, I spend a day with V to figure out why the hell they continue to do it and, more importantly, how they feel about the looming ban that threatens their main subscriber base.
