Instagram is introducing a way to livestream to a smaller, more private audience.

Beginning today, Instagram users will be able to host Live broadcasts only available to their curated list of Close Friends. Up to three other accounts can join the Live broadcast and stream with the original user. The feature rolls out globally.

Until this point, beginning a Live broadcast meant that anyone could tune in and watch it if your account was public, and all followers could watch the stream if you had a private account. Live videos are a popular feature for influencers and celebrities chatting with followers or fan accounts streaming live footage from concerts — in other words, content that’s more geared toward wide audiences and for public consumption.

The ability to go live only to a small group of people feels closer to a giant FaceTime call than to a public livestream — and, indeed, use case examples offered by the company are decidedly more intimate. A user could start sharing influencer content like haul or “get ready with me” videos without judgment from certain followers, for example, or host a study session with a handful of friends.

Instagram has emphasized more private modes of using the platform, attributing significant growth to features like direct messaging. In November, users got the option to make [posts on their grid visible only to close friends](/2023/11/14/23959733/instagram-share-posts-reels-close-friends) as opposed to their full follower list. In May, Instagram added the ability to [mute interactions from everyone *but* your close friends](/2024/5/30/24167259/instagram-limit-posts-everyone-but-close-friends), meaning users wouldn’t see comments, DMs, mentions, and more if they opt in to stricter safety settings. This kind of filtering was intended to [limit harassment content creators might face](/2021/8/11/22620052/instagram-limit-dm-comment-abuse-england-soccer) but has since expanded in use and can be deployed by anyone who wants a smaller, more curated Instagram experience.
