The Threads API is now available, meeting a promised launch by the end of June. The free API will allow developers to build “unique integrations” into Threads, and potentially even result in third-party apps for Meta’s competitor to what was previously known as Twitter.

“People can now publish posts via the API, fetch their own content, and leverage our reply management capabilities to set reply and quote controls, retrieve replies to their posts, hide, unhide or respond to specific replies,” [explains Jesse Chen](https://developers.facebook.com/blog/post/2024/06/18/the-threads-api-is-finally-here/), director of engineering at Threads.

Chen says that insights into Threads posts are “one of our top requested features for the API,” so Meta is allowing developers to see the number of views, likes, replies, reposts, and quotes on Threads posts through the API. Meta has published [plenty of documentation](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/threads) about how developers can get started with the Threads API, and there’s even an open-source Threads API [sample app on GitHub](https://github.com/fbsamples/threads_api?fbclid=IwZXh0bgNhZW0CMTEAAR1q2XtCaLzb_FGlUAR_NNZCQIpHojTsc6FtjmKUSMznYTDEQO1npDqlF3s_aem_i29bjVk_e0o0fKGexNZdQA).

Meta has been testing the Threads API with a small number of developers: Grabyo, Hootsuite, Social News Desk, Sprinklr, Sprout Social, and Techmeme. These test integrations have allowed sites like Techmeme to automate posting to Threads, or Sprout and Hootsuite customers to feed Threads posts into the social media management platform.

We’re now waiting to see if developers will be able to easily build a third-party Threads app with this new API that’s not connected to a social media management platform. The existing [fediverse beta](/2024/3/21/24107881/threads-fediverse-beta-launch-mastodon) could help with that, allowing Threads users to access posts through Mastodon clients and share content to Mastodon servers. The current beta of the fediverse integration doesn’t let users view replies and follows from the fediverse though, so it’s far from being feature complete as an alternative to third-party Threads apps.
