Samsung’s next Unpacked summer launch event will take place on July 10th in Paris, France, the company [announced on Tuesday](https://news.samsung.com/us/samsung-galaxy-unpacked-july-2024-galaxy-ai-is-here-invitation-livestream-replay/). The animation accompanying the invitation hints at foldables, and the invite itself removes all doubt: “Prepare to discover the power of Galaxy AI, now infused into the latest Galaxy Z series and the entire Galaxy ecosystem.” But we’re also on the lookout for something of a different shape: the Galaxy Ring.

Rumors indicate that the Galaxy Z Fold 6 and Z Flip 6 will be fairly minor upgrades, with the Z Flip 6 getting [a slightly bigger battery](/2024/5/28/24166632/galaxy-z-flip-6-smart-ring-size-battery-capacity-leaks) and the Z Fold 6 [looking a little boxier](/2024/6/14/24178509/samsung-galaxy-z-fold-6-prototype-boxier-design). Not the most exciting stuff, but that’s been the story with the past few generations of Samsung’s folding phones.

Instead, the more exciting announcement might not be a phone at all — rumors point to an official launch for the Galaxy Ring, [first announced at the *other* Unpacked](/2024/1/17/24041859/samsung-smart-galaxy-ring-unpacked) earlier this year. We got a little [hands-on time with a prototype version](/2024/2/26/24082729/samsung-has-big-ambitions-for-the-galaxy-ring) at Mobile World Congress not long after that, and a few rumored details have [trickled out here and there](/2024/5/22/24162407/samsung-galaxy-ring-price-rumors-subscription). We’ve yet to hear official pricing or confirmation of the health sensors it will carry, but that might be changing soon enough.

One thing we will surely hear about? Galaxy AI, of course. Samsung’s first Unpacked this year was [all about it](/2024/1/17/24040715/samsung-galaxy-s24-ultra-specs-price-ai). Since then, it’s been the theme of every developer conference — [first at I/O](/2024/5/14/24155647/google-io-news-announcements-rumors-gemini-ai/archives/2), then [Microsoft Build](/2024/5/20/24160486/microsoft-copilot-plus-ai-arm-chips-pc-surface-event) and [WWDC](/2024/6/10/24175405/wwdc-apple-ai-news-features-ios-18-macos-15-iphone-ipad-mac). ‘Tis the season.

Unpacked will be streamed live on [Samsung.com](http://Samsung.com) starting at 9AM ET on Wednesday, July 10th. You can [“reserve” a device](https://howl.me/cmxwWBu0HSC) and get a $50 credit when you preorder one through Samsung.
