Samsung’s next [Unpacked event is right around the corner](/2024/6/25/24178801/samsung-unpacked-summer-2024-galaxy-z-fold-6-ring), taking place on July 10th in Paris, France. Judging by various leaks and the [recent invite video](https://youtu.be/vrQIqgPDw00?si=8D5GF84jqtwecxiq), we’ll be seeing new versions of the Galaxy Z Fold and Z Flip phones (and perhaps a closer look at the [Galaxy Ring](/2024/1/17/24041859/samsung-smart-galaxy-ring-unpacked)). Now, in the lead-up to the event, Samsung is offering one of its reservation promotions, allowing early adopters to [”reserve” one of the phones and get a $50 credit](https://howl.link/c95h2ku3kxa7z) to use on an eligible device once a preorder is complete.

The reservation period runs through Wednesday, July 10th, and even if you reserve a preorder, you are not obligated to buy the new phones if you change your mind. Those who do, however, [will get a $50 credit](https://howl.link/c95h2ku3kxa7z) to use on Samsung’s site or in the Shop Samsung app (as long as you buy it using the same email address as the one on the reservation).

Although it typically doesn’t take too long for Samsung to discount its new foldables and $50 may not be a huge discount on phones that typically range between $1,000 and $1,800, you might as well save what you can if you think you will opt for a preorder ahead of launch.

If the [rumors](/2024/5/30/24167731/another-look-at-the-boxy-galaxy-z-fold-6), [leaks](/2024/6/14/24178509/samsung-galaxy-z-fold-6-prototype-boxier-design), and [the FCC](/2024/5/28/24166632/galaxy-z-flip-6-smart-ring-size-battery-capacity-leaks) are to be trusted, then it seems the yet-to-be-announced Galaxy Z Flip 6 and Galaxy Z Fold 6 will offer mostly incremental updates. The pricier Z Fold might be getting a more squared-off design that makes it look a little more boxy, but it’s likely to keep its tall remote-like posture, which unfolds for a small tablet experience. The Flip 6 may be getting a bigger battery, which I’m pretty sure is welcome in just about any device.

We’ll have to see if Samsung surprises us with any curveballs, especially since there’s been even more talk — and hype — about AI software features.
