Intel, Nvidia, AMD, and Qualcomm are the household names in chips — but in 2025, the popular but lesser known MediaTek might make a play to join them. [*Reuters* reports](https://www.reuters.com/technology/mediatek-designs-arm-based-chip-microsofts-ai-laptops-say-sources-2024-06-11/?s=31) that the Taiwanese chip company is now preparing an AI PC chipset to launch in late 2025 specifically for Windows PCs. Currently, Qualcomm’s Snapdragon X Elite [is the alleged MacBook Air-beating talk of the town](/2024/5/30/24167745/microsoft-macbook-air-benchmarks-surface-laptop-copilot-plus-pc), and MediaTek wants a piece of that action.

According to *Reuters*, the new MediaTek chip will reportedly be aimed at the same [Microsoft Copilot Plus PC program](/2024/5/20/24160486/microsoft-copilot-plus-ai-arm-chips-pc-surface-event) that Qualcomm helped kick-start with Microsoft. There’s apparently an opening for chipmakers like MediaTek there now that Microsoft’s exclusivity arrangement with Qualcomm for Arm-based versions of Windows [is finally ending this year](https://stratechery.com/2024/an-interview-with-arm-ceo-rene-haas/#:~:text=RH%3A%20Yeah%2C%20maybe,of%20the%20year%2C%20yeah.).

MediaTek isn’t the only one taking advantage of the lapsed Qualcomm deal; [Nvidia and AMD plan to have Arm PC chips in 2025](/2023/10/23/23929240/nvidia-amd-cpu-arm-pc-chips-2025-release-rumors), too. But that Nvidia chip may be partially powered by MediaTek as well! That’s what we heard in [a report from Taiwan’s *United Daily News*](https://money.udn.com/money/story/5612/7959556) last month, and *Reuters* now confirms MediaTek is helping with that separate chip, too. There’s even a rumor floating around that MediaTek and Nvidia may be [working on a Steam Deck-sized gaming chip](https://hothardware.com/news/mediatek-gaming-handheld-nvidia-gpu-challenge-steam-deck).

Why would Nvidia need MediaTek when it already builds its own Arm chips? (The Nintendo Switch [has used Nvidia Tegra chips from the start](/2016/10/20/13346004/nintendo-took-the-guts-from-the-nvidia-shield-for-its-new-console).) I’m not entirely sure. MediaTek is a fabless chipmaker, meaning it doesn’t manufacture chips itself. As far as MediaTek’s own separate chip goes, *Reuters* says it uses Arm’s “ready-made designs,” likely meaning it adopts [Arm’s already-designed processing cores](/2024/5/29/24166216/arm-immortalis-g925-cortex-x925-mobile-soc) instead of something MediaTek came up with on its own.

And speaking of those ready-made designs, they may power yet another Windows+Arm competitor for Qualcomm, too. “Executives at Arm have said one of its customers used the ready-made components to build a chip in roughly nine months for a design that is already complete, which MediaTek’s is not,” writes *Reuters*.

Feels like things are heating up again in the laptop space!
