If you’re not an audiophile and can’t otherwise afford to splurge on a substantial pair of headphones like the [AirPods Max](/22177494/apple-airpods-max-headphones-review-price-features) or the new [Sonos Ace](/24169086/sonos-ace-headphones-review) headphones, a pair of Beats can do the job just fine. The brand’s headphones consistently sound pretty good and have kept up well with the times under Apple’s stewardship. You can consider the **Beats Studio Pro** the pinnacle of the line right now, and the flagship over-ear pair are nearly matching their all-time low price at around $179.95 ($170 off) at [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Beats-Studio-Pro-Personalized-Compatibility/dp/B0C8PWSW7T?tag=theverge02-20), [Best Buy](https://howl.me/ck1uLjXb2yc), and [Target](https://goto.target.com/c/482924/81938/2092?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.target.com%2Fp%2Fbeats-studio-pro-bluetooth-wireless-headphones-sandstone%2F-%2FA-89401492). That’s only $10 more than the all-time low price we saw during Black Friday.

At launch, [we felt the Beats Studio Pro couldn’t quite measure up](/23799799/beats-studio-pro-review-apple-google-features) to the competition in the price arena they played in. In terms of audio quality, they won’t beat [Sony’s WH-1000XM5](/23067645/sony-wh-1000xm5-noise-canceling-headphones-review) or the [Bose QuietComfort Ultra](/23920591/bose-quietcomfort-ultra-headphones-review) they’re positioned against. They don’t sound bad, mind you; they’re just not *great*. But they’re still the best Beats headphones you can get, and there are other reasons to consider going for these beyond whatever affinity you have for the brand.

For example, these headphones are more adaptable than most across the mobile ecosystem duopoly currently ruled by iOS and Android. On iOS, they support key features like one-touch pairing, Siri, spatial audio with dynamic head tracking, Find My, and iCloud sync. On Android, you also get Fast Pair, Find My Device support, and automatic pairing and seamless audio switching between Android devices and Chromebooks. Plus, you get better active noise cancellation and transparency mode compared to the [Beats Studio 3](/2017/10/25/16542656/beats-studio-3-wireless-headphones-review-noise-canceling) they replaced, not to mention lossless USB-C audio (although you give up the aforementioned audio features when using it).
