Volkswagen is investing $1 billion in Rivian as part of a new joint venture that will give the German auto giant access to the buzzy California EV company’s software and EV platform. An additional $4 billion could be invested in Rivian, for a total sum of $5 billion.

The new venture was announced in [a post from Rivian CEO RJ Scaringe](https://x.com/RJScaringe/status/1805694762286301406), who noted the investment will help the company bring its next generation [R2 electric vehicle](/2024/3/7/24093215/rivian-r2-revealed-ev-suv-price-specs-price) to market starting in 2026. The R2 is expected to be a more affordable $45,000 model than its current luxury-priced EVs, the R1T and R1S.

Scaringe said the partnership will bring Rivian’s new zonal architecture, available now through its [refreshed second-generation R1 vehicles](/2024/6/6/24172761/rivian-r1t-r1s-refresh-update-motor-battery-price), as well as its software, to a “broader market.” Rivian recently became one of the few companies beyond Tesla to use a zonal architecture for its vehicles that rely on fewer electric control units than usual.

The money will no doubt come in handy, too. Like other EV-only companies, Rivian has been [struggling through a period of cooling demand around electric vehicles](/2024/3/6/24091419/rivian-r2-ev-crossover-suv-profit-earnings-future). The company’s sales are up, but its losses are also increasing. It has $7.9 billion of cash and cash equivalents on hand, but it has acknowledged that cuts could be necessary if it’s ever going to achieve stability. Rivian has already gone through [several rounds of layoffs](/2024/2/21/24079572/rivian-layoff-ev-production-q4-earnings) in its short history.

Meanwhile, VW has been going through its own struggles around EVs. The company’s plug-in models are selling well, but its [market share](https://electrek.co/2024/01/09/volkswagen-delivered-394000-evs-in-2023-falls-behind-tesla/) in North America is shrinking. And its software has been [plagued by bugs and customer complaints](/2022/12/14/23508088/volkswagen-software-id4-bug-problem-smartphone).

VW isn’t the first legacy automaker to partner with Rivian. The company was planning to co-develop an electric SUV with Ford, but those [plans were cancelled](/2020/4/28/21240212/ford-lincoln-cancel-rivian-suv-ev-coronavirus-pandemic-investment) amid the covid pandemic. The plan was to use Rivian’s battery pack and electric motor setup in a Ford or Lincoln branded SUV. [Ford invested $500 million](/2019/4/24/18514031/ford-electric-pickup-truck-ev-startup-rivian-tech) in Rivian as part of the plan, along with $700 million from Amazon.
