Unless you’re flush with cash and time is only conceptual in your world, it may be tough to finance and find the time to enjoy all of the games announced during Microsoft’s recent [Xbox Showcase](/24173601/xbox-games-showcase-june-2024-microsoft). An **Xbox Game Pass Ultimate subscription** can help, though, as it’ll provide day-one access to many of the titles currently in development.

Thankfully, CDKeys is now selling [one-month subscription codes for $10.19](https://go.skimresources.com/?id=1025X1701640&xs=1&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdkeys.com%2Fxbox-live%2F1-month-xbox-game-pass-ultimate-xbox-one-pc) (about $7 off) and [three-month codes for $27.99](https://go.skimresources.com/?id=1025X1701640&xs=1&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdkeys.com%2Fxbox-live%2F3-month-xbox-game-pass-ultimate-xbox-one-pc) (about $23 off), the latter of which is a better deal. CDKeys is a trusted merchant here at *The Verge*, so don’t feel deterred if you’re unfamiliar with the name. The online retailer specializes in selling heavily discounted key codes for gaming products, whether you’re looking to save on subscriptions, full games, in-game currency, or post-launch DLC.

You can redeem the codes no matter which region you’re in, and you should be able to purchase and stack as many as you’d like so long as you’re under Microsoft’s 36-month pre-pay limit. (Not all of the codes at CDKeys are region-free and stackable, so double-check that you’re buying the correct one using the links above.) Plus, in this instance, both new and existing subscribers can redeem the digital codes.

You’ll certainly want to consider extending your subscription or finally making the jump from Game Pass Core, as Xbox has put together arguably one of its strongest gaming lineups ever going into 2025. Perhaps the most significant launch is [an all-new *Gears of War* prequel subtitled *E-Day*](/24172052/gears-6-xbox-summer-game-fest-trailer), which follows the friction that Marcus Fenix, Dom, and the rest of their COG cohorts experienced when the locusts first emerged. If that’s not enough, [*Black Ops 6*](/2024/6/9/24173669/call-of-duty-black-ops-6-release-date-october-25th) marks the first time a *Call of Duty* game will be available on Game Pass day one. Other titles that will hit the service immediately upon launch include upcoming reboots and follow-ups to fan-favorite series such as [*Fable*](/2024/6/9/24173655/xbox-fable-game-release-date-2025-trailer)*,* [*Perfect Dark*](/24174839/perfect-dark-reboot-xbox-microsoft), and [*Doom*](/24172041/doom-the-dark-ages-xbox-summer-game-fest-trailer).

In the meantime, you can enjoy other perks that come with Game Pass Ultimate, such as exclusive deals and online multiplayer, plus a large rotating library of Xbox and PC games. Its permanent catalog features nearly all of the first-party titles under Microsoft’s banner, including [*Halo Infinite*](/2021/12/6/22820011/halo-infinite-campaign-review-xbox-series-x) and surprise hits like [*Hi-Fi Rush*](/23589879/hi-fi-rush-making-of-interview-xbox). There’s also a large catalog of third-party games — including [*Star Wars Jedi: Survivor*](/23697355/star-wars-jedi-survivor-review-ps5-xbox-pc), *Cocoon,* [*Starfield*](/23852390/starfield-review-xbox-pc), and [several titles from the beloved *Persona* series](/2022/6/12/23164864/xbox-persona-5-royal-4-golden-3-portable) — all of which are worth sinking your time into if you haven’t already.
