Sony is improving its Discord integration on the PS5 so that you can join voice calls directly from the console. First [launched last year](/2023/3/8/23630228/sony-ps5-update-discord-1440p-vrr-support), Discord support on PS5 currently requires you to manually transfer a call to a console by using the Discord app on mobile or PC. Sony is now [rolling out an update](https://blog.playstation.com/2024/06/13/ps5-players-will-soon-be-able-to-join-discord-voice-chat-directly-from-their-console/) that integrates Discord directly into the PS5 dashboard so you can select the server or DM group you want to join.

The update is rolling out gradually over the coming weeks, starting with PS5 owners in Japan and Asia followed by Europe, Australia, New Zealand, the Middle East, and then finally the US and Canada. You’ll need to update your PS5 to the latest system software to get this new Discord integration, and a PlayStation Network account will need to be linked to your Discord account, too.

“To start, select the Discord tab in Game Base within the PS5 Control Center and choose the Discord server or DM group you’d like to join,” explains Sabrina Meditz, senior director of product management for the PlayStation platform experience. “Then, select your preferred voice channel. This will reveal more details, such as who is already in the channel chatting. You’ll also receive a PS5 console notification when another Discord user calls you, allowing you to join right away.”

This latest PS5 update puts the Discord experience nearly on par with what Microsoft offers on the Xbox. Microsoft [first offered Discord support on Xbox](/2022/7/20/23271170/discord-xbox-voice-calls-integration-hands-on) in July 2022 for testers, before then rolling out an [improved experience](/2022/11/16/23460701/xbox-november-update-discord-voice-channels-deals-capture) without the need for a phone in November 2022. Discord on Xbox was also updated to [let you stream your gameplay](/2023/8/2/23816949/discord-xbox-stream-feature-testing-xbox-insiders) to friends last year.

Sony is also rolling out the ability to share your PlayStation Network profile on any messaging or social app, with a new share profile option in the PlayStation mobile app next week. The feature generates a shareable link or QR code so people can easily add you as a friend.
